Question 1
All of the questions in this quiz refer to the open source Chinook Database. Please familiarize yourself with the ER diagram in order to familiarize yourself with the table and column names in order to write accurate queries and get the appropriate answers.

Using a subquery, find the names of all the tracks for the album "Californication".

Answer: SELECT *
FROM tracks
WHERE albumid IN (
		SELECT albumid
		FROM albums
		WHERE title = "Californication"
		)

Question 2
All of the questions in this quiz refer to the open source Chinook Database. Please familiarize yourself with the ER diagram in order to familiarize yourself with the table and column names in order to write accurate queries and get the appropriate answers.

Find the total number of invoices for each customer along with the customer's full name, city and email.

Answer : SELECT c.firstname
	,c.lastname
	,c.city
	,c.email
	,c.customerid
	,count(invoiceid)
FROM invoices i
INNER JOIN customers c ON i.customerid = c.customerid
GROUP BY c.firstname
	,c.lastname
	--having c.firstname = 'František'


Question 3
All of the questions in this quiz refer to the open source Chinook Database. Please familiarize yourself with the ER diagram in order to familiarize yourself with the table and column names in order to write accurate queries and get the appropriate answers.

Retrieve the track name, album, artistID, and trackID for all the albums.

Answer: SELECT t.name
	,t.albumid
	,t.trackid
	,a.title
	,a.artistid
FROM tracks t
LEFT JOIN albums a ON t.albumid = a.albumid
WHERE t.trackid = 12


Question 4
All of the questions in this quiz refer to the open source Chinook Database. Please familiarize yourself with the ER diagram in order to familiarize yourself with the table and column names in order to write accurate queries and get the appropriate answers.

Retrieve a list with the managers last name, and the last name of the employees who report to him or her.

Answer: SELECT e.lastname
	,m.reportsto
	,e.employeeid
FROM employees e
LEFT JOIN employees m ON e.employeeid = m.employeeid


Question 5
All of the questions in this quiz refer to the open source Chinook Database. Please familiarize yourself with the ER diagram in order to familiarize yourself with the table and column names in order to write accurate queries and get the appropriate answers.

Find the name and ID of the artists who do not have albums. 

Ans: SELECT ar.artistid
	,ar.name
	,al.title
FROM artists ar
LEFT JOIN albums al ON ar.artistid = al.artistid
WHERE albumid IS NULL;


Question 6
All of the questions in this quiz refer to the open source Chinook Database. Please familiarize yourself with the ER diagram in order to familiarize yourself with the table and column names in order to write accurate queries and get the appropriate answers.

Use a UNION to create a list of all the employee's and customer's first names and last names ordered by the last name in descending order.

Ans:
SELECT e.lastname AS lastname
	,e.firstname AS firstname
FROM employees e

UNION

SELECT c.lastname AS lastname
	,c.firstname AS firstname
FROM customers AS c
ORDER BY lastname DESC


Question 7
All of the questions in this quiz refer to the open source Chinook Database. Please familiarize yourself with the ER diagram in order to familiarize yourself with the table and column names in order to write accurate queries and get the appropriate answers.

See if there are any customers who have a different city listed in their billing city versus their customer city.

Ans: SELECT Customers.FirstName
	,Customers.City
	,Invoices.BillingCity
FROM Customers
LEFT JOIN Invoices ON Customers.CustomerId = Invoices.CustomerId
WHERE Customers.City != Invoices.BillingCity